.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH ELECTRICSHEEP 1 "June 16, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
electricsheep \- collective dream of computers screensaver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B electricsheep
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Electric sheep
is the collective dream of sleeping computers from all over the internet. Less
poetically, it is an Internet server and xscreensaver module that displays MPEG
video of an animated fractal flame.  In the background, it contributes render
cycles to the next animation.  Periodically, it uploads completed frames to the
server, where they are compressed for distribution to all clients.
.SH OPTIONS
This program follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
.TP
Here a couple of common options, refere to --help for the full list.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-\-nick <name>
Set nickname to use for uploading rendered frames
.TP
.B \-\-url <url>
Set the link name to this url in server credit, default is none.
.TP
.B \-\-nice N
Set nice level to run renderprocess under.
.TP
.B \-\-timeout N
Set timeout for downloading pre-rendered mpegs in seconds
.TP
.B \-\-nthreads N
Set the number of rendering threads, default is 1
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Sander Smeenk <ssmeenk@debian.org> and 
Alexis Sukrieh <sukria@sukria.net> for the Debian GNU/Linux system 
(but may be used by others).
